I love it when I find a longer story that’s suitable for beginning readers. This one, which is either a tale that reminds us what happens when you try to be something you’re not, or a tale that reminds us that men should never be allowed to give each other fashion advice, definitely fits the bill.
The first sentence isn’t super simple, so push through that one if you can, it gets much easier in the following paragraphs. Four points of grammar:
能有幸请 néng yǒu xìng qǐng – A politely formal phrase of invitation “May have the pleasure of inviting you …” or more specifically, “May I be so lucky as to…” (have this dance?) (take you on a date?).
看上去 kàn shàng qù – To look like.
你要是再不走开 nǐ yào shì zài bù zǒu kāi – This one might be a little confusing. Let’s break it down:
你 – You
要是 – If
再不 – Otherwise / If not
走开 – Go away
The full phrase means “If you don’t go away….”
他会来收拾你的 tā huì lái shōu shi nǐ de. In the story, Miss Pig says this to an unwelcome guest. The “他” in this case is Mr. Pig. The Beginners often learn the word “收拾”, meaning “to tidy up”. Usually, this means exactly what it sounds like, and applies to cleaning up a room or an apartment. In this case, it’s being used in kind of an action movie way, meaning “He’ll come over and deal with you!” or “He’ll come straighten you out!”. So Miss Pig is threatening the unwelcome guest, telling him that Mr. Pig will come over and beat him up.
The Chinese title is 猪先生去野餐


 ----------- 


Today, it’s a great day for a picnic. Mr. Pig dressed himself with care, looking forward to [the possibility of] Miss Pig and himself going on a picnic together.
“Heh, I hope she says ‘Yes’ [lit: I'm willing]. Hm, I’ll also pick some flowers to give her, that will certainly be enough to sway her!”
On the road, Mr. Pig ran into his friend Fox. When fox heard about the picnic, he said: “Let me give you a suggestion, let me lend you my beautiful tail. See, you look so clever, Miss Pig will certainly like it.” Mr. Pig was very pleased. 
Continuing on, he ran into his friend Lion. Lion heard about the picnic and said: “Let me give you a suggestion, borrow my beautiful hair for when you go over there. See, you look so powerful, Miss Pig will certainly like it.” Mr. Pig was very pleased.  
After a while, he ran into his friend Zebra. Zebra heard about the picnic and said: “Let me give you a suggestion, I’ll lend you my beautiful stripes. See, you look so handsome. Miss Pig will certainly like it.” Mr. Pig was very pleased. He felt that he’d never before looked so handsome.
Finally arriving at Miss Pig’s house, Mr. Pig excitedly knocked on the door. “Would you do me the honor of going on a picnic with me?” he asked. 
Miss Pig was terrified: “Oh, no way! What kind of monster are you? If you don’t go away, I’ll go get Mr. Pig, he’ll straighten you out!”
Mr. Pig hurriedly ran away. On the road, he gave the stripes back to Zebra, the hair back to Lion, and the tail back to Fox. AFter that, he hurried back to Miss Pig’s house, and again pressed the doorbell. 
“Would you do me the honor of having a picnic with me?” he asked again. 
“Goodness, Mr. Pig!” Miss Pig cried out. “I’m so happy to see you, I’d love to go on a picnic with you. An ugly wretch just came by here, standing in my garden, and scared me so.” 
On the way, Miss Pig told Mr. Pig the story of the ‘ugly wretch’ in great detail. Her handsome friend Mr. Pig, though, listened with great sympathy. It really was a great day for a picnic.
