Father’s Day’s coming up in a few weeks, and we’ll be looking at the lyrics of a beginner-level saccharine-cute song written for children to sing to their dads (or, for the children of the digital generation, to forward to their dads) on their special day. This post is accompanied by a Flash Father’s Day video where you can listen to the song on an INFINITE LOOP. Lucky you. 

Here’s the original video with the actual song. http://new.060s.com/flash/flashbrow.php?flash=70648ecb985590c987c8ffd9b0b5edb1, have a listen if you dare.
Because this is a song, we have a couple of instances where a similar sentence structure is used with different words – these are probably the hardest sentences in the song. Example: 脏活累活他全包了. First, let me break down this sentence:
脏 – Dirty
活 – Activity, work
累 – Tired
活 – Activity, work
他 – He
全包 – All included
了 – (grammar word)
What? Dirty activity tired activity he all included?! What the heck does that mean? In proper English, we might translate that as “Dirty work, Tired work, he does it all!” We are, of course, talking about our amazing dads and all the thanklessly exhausting housework and job work they do. Thing is, there’s nowhere in this sentence where the verb “does” as in “to do work” actually appears. We’re just expected to infer the word from the context of 全包 – “all included”.
We see the same sentence structure later in the song: 剩菜剩饭他全包了. The breakdown:
剩 – Leftover
菜 – Vegetables
剩 – Leftover
饭 – Rice
他 – He
全包 – All included
了 (grammar word).
Once again, that strange “all included” – we are again expected to infer the verb here. Any guesses? The sentence means “Leftover Vegetables, Leftover Rice, he eats it all!” or “He eats all the leftovers!” So the missing word we kinda have to mentally fill in is “eats”.


 ----------- 


Dad’s the best, Dad’s the best, dad’s the best!

Dad’s really got no shortage of strength

He does a lot but speaks little

He does all the dirty and tired work.

Dad’s the best, dad’s the best, dad’s the best!

Dad’s really got no shortage of generosity

He earns a lot but spends little

And he eats all the leftovers!

He earns a lot but spends little

And he eats all the leftovers!
