Chinese Title: 童年傻事
This essay about a kid who takes his father’s advice a little too literally (with amusing results) is almost as beginner as a five-paragraph read can get. You’ll find very few intermediate-level words, and extremely basic sentence structure.
Only thing intermediate about this read is the very first sentence, which we’ll talk about here. After this it’s pretty easy going. The essay starts out 童年仿佛是一条小船，里面装满了甜蜜的糖果，也装满了许多忧伤。 Let’s break this one down word by word:
童年 – tóng nián – Childhood
仿佛 – fǎng fú – seems like
是 – shì – [it] is
一条 – yī tiáo – a (literally: the word “one” plus the classifier for boats, which is 条)
小船, – xiǎo chuán – boat,
里面 – lǐ miàn – inside
装满了 – zhuāng mǎn le – is full (of)
甜蜜的 – tián mì de – sweet
糖果, – táng guǒ – candy,
也 – yě – also
装满了 – zhuāng mǎn le – is full (of)
许多 – xǔ duō – much
忧伤 – yōu shāng – distress.
Pretty straightforward when you look at it that way. A quick note on that: though the word 糖果 (which appears a lot in this text) means “candy”, it does not mean “candy fruit” or “sweet fruit”, as you might guess from the character 果. This is just a general word for candy, though the Chinese don’t consider chocolate a “candy” – it’s in its own category.
The original is from a Chinese essay composition site.


 ----------- 


Childhood seems like a boat that is full of sweet candy, but is also laden with grief. 
I was born into a happy six-person family. There’s father, mother, grandpa, grandma, my elder sister and myself. 
[The story begins] when I was four, on a scorching afternoon. Grandpa, grandma, mother and my elder sister were all busy doing their own thing. Dad picked me up and carried me to the store, and bought me lots of candy. On the way back to the house, dad put me down, and went to our house’s back garden to plant apple trees. I went with him, and asked him ‘what are you doing’? Father said: “I’m planting apple trees, when autumn arrives you’ll have apples to eat.” Father continued: “Whatever seeds you plant will grow.” Father finished speaking and went back into the house to drink tea. Then I thought to myself if I take the candy I just bought and plant it in the earth, in autumn I should have lots of candy! 
I did just that, I dug a hole, took my left over candy and put it all in the hole, using dirt to bury it. In silence I fervently hoped: “Candy, grow quickly! Candy, grow quickly! Grow into a big tree, and sprout lots and lots of candy.” I told this wish to my father, and he listened. Laughing heartily he said: “Candy can’t grow into a big tree, and it definitely can’t sprout more candy.” I heard my father’s words and I sat down on the grass and started sobbing, my candy, my candy. Father quickly ran up to me, embraced me and said: “Oh, don’t cry little darling, daddy will buy you lots and lots of candy.” I listened to him and stopped crying.
Nowadays I’ve already grown up, and I won’t try foolishly planting candy again.
