A slightly nonsensical fairy tale about a young woman and a cabbage-stealing rabbit that wants to marry her.
One of the interesting grammatical points in this story is the phrase 吃光 chī guāng. We know that chī means “to eat”, but guāng typically means “to be bright” – so what are those two words doing next to each other? A secondary meaning of the word guāng is “to finish”, or “to use up”. It’s usually placed after a verb to indicate that the verb was done until it couldn’t be done any more, or until something was gone – in this case “to eat up”.
Another interesting word here is the word 动手 dòng shǒu, literally “move hands”. In this case, it means “get going”, or “get started working [on something]“, as in the phrase 现在动手烧饭吧, or “Start cooking now”.
I’d imagine the most confusing piece of this text is the last sentence of the paragraph that begins “第三天…”. Within the parentheses, the tone of the story randomly changes. This should be read as the first (and only) interjection by the story’s narrator, who elaborates on what kind of animals attended the wedding.


 ----------- 


Long ago, there was a married woman who brought her daughter to live in a beautiful garden planted with many cabbages. In winter, a rabbit came to the garden and stole the cabbages to eat. Mama said to her daughter, “Go chase that rabbit away.” The girl went outside and said to the rabbit, “Wei! Rabbit, you’ll soon eat up all of our cabbage!” The rabbit said to the girl, “Young lady, come sit on my tail, I’ll take you to my house.” 
But the girl was unwilling.
On the second day, the rabbit came to eat the cabbages again. Mama again said to her daughter, “Go into the garden and drive that rabbit away.” The girl went outside and said to the rabbit, “Wei! Rabbit, you’ll soon eat up all of our cabbage!” The rabbit said to the girl, “Young lady, come sit on my tail, I’ll take you to my house.” But the girl still refused. 
On the third day, the rabbit came again, and sat on top of the cabbage. The mother said to her daughter, “Go chase that rabbit away.” So the girl went outside and said, “Wei! Rabbit, you’ll soon eat up all of our cabbage!” The rabbit said to the girl, “Young lady, sit on my tail and I’ll take you to my house.” The girl sat on the rabbit’s tail and was taken to the rabbit’s house far away. He said to the girl, “Now get started with the cooking, use green vegetables and millet, I’ll go invite guests to the wedding.” Presently, all the guests arrived (and who were the guests? I’ll tell you what I heard from someone else: They were all rabbits! A dairy cow was the pastor, who took charge of the wedding for the bride and groom; and a fox was the master of ceremonies, with his altar set beneath a rainbow).
The girl was very sad, because only she was human. The rabbit approached her and said, “Open the door, open the door, hurry and open the door, the guests are very interested [in seeing you].” The unwitting bride [lit: girl who was being treated as a bride] began sobbing without saying anything, and the rabbit went away. When he came back again, he said, “Serve the food, serve the food, hurry and serve the food, the guests are all very hungry.” The girl, crying to herself, still didn’t make a peep, and the rabbit again went away. The third time he came back, he said to the girl, “Uncover the saucepan, quick uncover the pot, the guests are getting impatient.” The bride remain uncommunicative, and the rabbit went away again. So the girl took her own clothes and put them on a scarecrow, put a spoon in its hand so that it appeared to be stirring the boiling pot, then positioned him next to the pot, and then she went back home to her mother.  
The rabbit came back again and yelled, “Hurry and serve the food, hurry and serve the food!” Then he stood up and raised a fist to the girl, and consequently knocked the scarecrow’s hat off.  
When the rabbit found out that this wasn’t his bride, he sadly went away from there. 
