A passage from a BLCU textbook in which a university student laments about catching a cold. This essay focuses on mostly illness-centric beginner language, such as 感冒 gǎn mào, meaning “to have a cold”， and 打针 dǎ zhēn, meaning “to get an IV drip or shot”.
Lest it seems a little dramatic to you that the writer would go to the hospital over a 24-hour cold, the Chinese typically don’t use private clinics (except in the case of accupuncture and massage), and commonly go to the hospital for almost every health-related issue, including colds and small fevers.
Of special interest is the phrase “还开了一些药”, or “and also prescribed me some medicine”. Literally, it says, “Also opened a bit of medicine”. But the word 开 kāi, which usually means “open”, is also the verb used to describe a doctor writing a perscription. This tells us that the doctor didn’t give (给gěi) the student any medicine himself, but perscribed it instead.


 ----------- 


I’m sick. My head hurts, I have a fever, my throat also hurts, I don’t want to eat anything, and at night I have a serious cough. In the morning my classmates all went to class, and I was the only one left in the dormitory. I feel very lonely. When you’re lonely, it’s easy to miss home. I have a lot of family members – an older brother, older sister, and also a younger brother. When I’m at home, we often play together. Right now, I’m in Beijing studying Chinese, and when I’m lonely I miss them.
Because I don’t feel well, I got up late today. When I got up, I went to the hospital. The doctor gave me a quick checkup and said I have a cold. He gave me one shot [also: IV drip], and also prescribed some medicine. He said, take the medicine and you’ll get better.
My teacher and classmates know I’m sick, so they all came to see me. Teacher Lin heard that I didn’t want to eat anything, so she made me a bowl of noodles. After I ate the noodles, I began to pour sweat. Teacher said, if you sweat, maybe your fever will go away.
In the afternoon, sure enough my fever was gone, and I was in a good mood. I emailed my older sister. I said, I have a very good life here, I have a good teacher and good classmates and good friends, and all together they make me very happy.
