Welp, I swore I would never do this again but I found this (and several other short stories) in Hainan Airlines’ in-flight magazine (I’m in Prague!) and couldn’t resist typing it up (as opposed to copy-pasting from an online source). I’ve checked and checked for typos, but I’m not always the best at that, so if you run across one, please comment.
This is one of those reads where the sentence structure is basic and in parts very repetitive, but quite a few advanced words are used – “advanced” only because they’re not used often in casual conversation, like parts of an animal (hooves, horns, etc.) So beginners, you can give this a go if you’re feeling very patient but you’ll be looking up every other word in some paragraphs even though you will be able to predict generally what the next few sentences are about.
I wanted to post a quick comment about the words 一箭一般, because this looks like a typical four-character idiom, but it’s actually two separate words, 一箭 (an arrow) and 一般 (like, as if). Together this means “like an arrow”, or in context of this sentence “to take off (running) like a shot”.
There’s also the phrase 从草丛中闪出. We’re talking here about a dog that is “[darting] out in a flash” (闪出) “from the middle of a cluster of grasses” (从草丛中). We can imagine a dog charging out of a field of tall grass and into a clearing.
The Chinese title is 沉默的狗


 ----------- 


One nightfall, a sheep was playing alone on the mountainside, when suddenly a wolf emerged from among the trees, wanting to eat the sheep, so the sheep jumped up, using his horns to defend himself with all his might, and loudly called out for his friends to save his life.
The bull looked over from among a cluster of trees, saw there was a wolf, and ran away.
The horse lowered its head and looked, discovered there was a wolf, and slipped away in a puff of smoke.
The mule stopped walking for a moment, discovered there was a wolf, and quietly slipped down the mountain.
The pig passed through there, found out there was a wolf, and rushed down the mountainside.
The rabbit listened a moment, then took off like a shot.
From the bottom of the mountain, the dog heard the sheep’s cry, and ran quickly up the mountainside, came out of the grass in a flash, and in a moment had grabbed the wolf’s neck in his teeth, the wolf cried out in pain, and taking advantage of the dog’s intake of breath, ran away full of sorrow and fear.
[When the sheep] returned home, his friends all came over.
The bull said: Why didn’t you tell me? My horns could have gouged out the wolf’s intestines.

The horse said: Why didn’t you tell me? My hooves could have kicked the wolf’s skull apart.

Donkey said: Why didn’t you tell me? I could have brayed and startled the wolf so as to break his courage.

Pig said: Why didn’t you tell me? I could nuzzle him with my snout, and make him fall down the mountain.

Rabbit said: Why didn’t you tell me? I run fast, I could have spread the word.

In this noisy group, the only one who wasn’t present was the dog.
