You know you need a KTV song! Beijing, Beijing is a slow ballad sung by Chinese artist 汪峰 wāng fēng and was in the Baidu Top 100 top 10 for a bit this year. Now it looks like it’s fallen between the 30th and 40th place on various music charts, but it’s still pretty popular, particularly in, you know, Beijing. If you can find it in yourself to embrace the painful 80′s growly I-mean-it man voice and the “Streets of Philadelphia” emo-dad thing, you may find that the song is a good karaoke song if you’re just starting out because it’s repetitive, it’s not abstract, it’s sung slowly enough to sing along and it’s so emotionally over-fraught that it’s fun.

I recommend you read and translate the lyrics before you listen to the song, so you’ve got an idea of what you’re hearing.
A few translation notes: it’s not always clear exactly how to translate song lyrics. Example: 寻找着追逐着奄奄一息的碎梦 is not an easy lyric to translate. Or rather, it’s super easy to get the gist of the meaning (searching, chasing, dying, broken dreams… you get the idea), but put an “of” in the wrong place and the meaning changes to something slightly different. I’ve done my best, feel free to re-write or re-interpret those in a different way.


 ----------- 


When I walk the streets here

It seems like my heart can never be serene

Beyond the rumble of engines and sounds of electronics

I seem to hear its candlewick heartbeat

This is where I laugh happily

This is where I weep

This is where I live

And this is where I’ll die

This is where I pray

This is where I’m confused

This is where I search

And also where I lose

Beijing, Beijing 　　
The three blocks between the coffee shop and the plaza

Seem like the distance between the neon lights and the moon 　　

People comfort and embrace each other as they struggle together

Searching for, chasing after, the last gasp of broken dreams

This is where we laugh happily

This is where we cry bitterly

This is where we live

And this is where we’ll die

This is where we pray

This is where we’re confused

This is where we search

And also where we lose

Beijing, Beijing 　　　
　

If someday I have no choice but to leave

I hope people bury me here

Here I can sense my existence

Here there are too many things I yearn for

This is where I laugh happily

This is where I cry bitterly

This is where I live

And this is where I die

This is where I pray

This is where I’m confused

This is where I search

And also where I lose

Beijing, Beijing 　　
