This not-too-dirty-but-not-really-clean joke comes from a great blog on the Sina blog network, the Chinese equivalent of Blogger.
The joke is about a woman whose new parrot can’t seem to stop saying one particular come hither phrase. The phrase so embarasses the woman that she tries to take action, but her plan doesn’t quite work out the way she wanted.
I had a bit of trouble translating the phrase 近朱者赤, which appears to mean “If you stand next to something red, you’ll become red yourself.” This idiom isn’t in the dictionary, but I believe it means that people are influenced by the things in their environment.


 ----------- 


There once was a woman who bought a female parrot. But little did she know, when she brought the parrot home she found it could only say one sentence: “Will you sleep with me?”
As soon as the woman heard this, she thought: “Oh no! If anyone else hears the parrot speak they’ll think I taught the parrot to say that, it’ll destroy my reputation as a virtuous woman.” By way of a solution, she thought maybe she could teach the parrot to say something dainty instead, but it seemed the parrot had a heart of iron, it would only say one thing, “Will you sleep with me?”　
What was she to do? Just when she had about given up, she heard of a priest who also owned a parrot (a male one), and moreover his parrot not only didn’t say vulgar things, it was actually a devout disciple; it spent most of its time in prayer. So the women went to see the priest. When the priest understood the woman’s reason for coming, he said a little sadly, “This is a hard problem to solve. In actual fact, I didn’t teach my parrot anything, maybe the reason it’s like that is because it’s spent a long time in this [church] environment.”　　
The priest saw the woman’s disappointment, so he said, “How about this: bring your parrot here to me, I’ll put it with my own. We can hope that after a little while, your parrot will be correctively influenced by mine. This is all I can do, whether it will work or not is up to God…”　
The woman listened [to his suggestions], and [also thought] that this was her only option, after all, isn’t there a saying: “Proximity to red will turn you red”? She figured she might as well try it. So the woman brought her parrot to the priest. The priest honored his promise and put the two birds together. At first, the female parrot was a little cautious, seeing the male bird over in one corner of the cage, silently praying, she didn’t have the heart to disturb him. But [after a while] she couldn’t help herself, and finaly said, “Will you sleep with me?”
The male parrot heard her say this, stopped praying, turned around and looked at her, and suddenly with tears streaming down its face said, “Thank you God, the thing I’ve prayed for all of these long years has finally happened…” 
