This is a slightly sad blurb about a substitue 班长, or classroom leader. If you’ve ever used Chinese-made textbooks to study, or if you’re studying language in China, this could be managable for a beginner, otherwise, consider it an intermediate passage.
Chinese beginner textbooks are often filled with classroom-y words, and stories about inter-student and student-teacher relationships, so this should make a bit more intuitive sense if you’ve ever been in a real Chinese classroom environment.
In my opinion, there’s no good English translation for the word 班长. In Chinese classrooms, one student is elected the class leader – they are responsible for keeping other students in line, are given extra classroom duties, and are akin to a teacher’s pet. But in English, the word “teacher’s pet” has a negative meaning. Not so in Chinese classrooms, where being the 班长 is considered a real privilege.
One of the more difficult clauses here is … 埋头继续玩”三国杀”. This means “… immersed themselves in continuing to play San Guo Sha.” San Guo Sha is a popular Asian card game (which, I understand, has been turned into an online multiplayer network game).


 ----------- 


The class monitor is the heart of any class [lit: grade level], needless to say it’s a powerful position. When the class monitor isn’t there, how should you deal with it? Well, you find another skilled student with good grades to substitute. 
I’m a [class monitor] substitute; when the class monitor isn’t there, the teacher asks me instead, and I’m happy to do some work for the teacher. 
This one day, the class monitor had just left to do something, so I ran up to the podium to oversee classroom discipline. The classroom was disorderly and loud, no one was paying attention to me. I called out loudly: “Everyone return to your places, we’re going to call roll.” The classroom immediately quieted down a bit, most students returned to their seats, but for a few, my words went in one ear and out the other, and they immersed themselves in their game of San Guo Sha. 
Indignant, I wrote the names [of the misbehaving students] on the blackboard in big letters. They tried vehemently to argue, saying :”Why are you writing my name?” I had just thought up a [stinging] retort, but the class inspector arrived, and I calmly said, “The inspector has arrived, you must not be noisy, or else you’ll be assigned extra homework.” They immediately shut their mouths. Ai, it’s no fun being the class monitor! 
As soon as the classroom inspector left, they once again ignored my protests, continued being noisy, and snapped, “What are you on your high horse about, you’re just a substitute.” They said this in a [mean]-spirited way. I turned away, tears welling in my eyes, but I tolerated it and did not argue with them.
Finally, the class monitor returned, and I stopped [living] my “life as a substitute”. 
Ai, being a substitute is more trouble than being the real thing. 
