Chinese Title: 女警察工作与生活平衡问题探讨
Gonna lay it on a bit thick today with something nice and serious. This is an abstract of an academic paper from the Gender Studies Network authored by Zhou Ying.
Because this is an advanced academic abstract, you can really see how, in the upper levels of written Chinese, a ton of words that we find essential in English can be dropped from a sentence while still preserving the essence of the meaning. We tend to extend sentences with explanation, but here, I feel, is a fabulous example of how efficient Chinese can be. Because so many words have been dropped, I’ve added a whole lot of bracketed explanation and English fill-in words in the translation to better illuminate the implied meaning.
I’m not quite sure I know what a “proper role in domestic life is”, I’m fairly certain that not all policewomen feel intensely conflicted, but I do like the idea of implementing some social policies to better support working women.


 ----------- 


Police work was once an occupational area forbidden to women. In the wake of [current] social development, the continuous increase in the number of policewomen and the continuous expansion in the scope of police work, policewomen have become an extraordinary force in upholding law and order and cracking down on crime.  [At the same time,] this development has left policewomen faced with difficulties in [maintaining] work-life balance. On the one hand, [there are work-related issues such as] their small number in proportion [to male policemen], a limited number of posts they may accept, few opportunities for promotion or participation in decision-making, threats to their occupational safety, and so on. On the other hand, [there are personal issues such as the fact that] the frenetic pace of police work makes it almost impossible to play a proper role in domestic life, creating an intense inner conflict in [policewomen's] heart. In order to improve policewomen’s work-life balance, we must strive [to address] both the social and individual aspects [of this problem], particularly in the form of support through social policies.
