This is a plot synopsis of the book “Opposite of Me” by Sarah Pekkanen.
Since this is an English language novel, if it sounds like your cup of tea, you can follow the link to Amazon above and snag a copy.
You can see the original Chinese synopsis (and many others) on book site http://book.douban.com.


 ----------- 


“The opposite of me” is about emotional entanglements in a love-hate relationship. Lynsey has a beautiful twin sister, Alex, who plays a very important role in her life, who makes her envious, and is someone she has jealously hated for 20 years. Alex has always been sexy and beautiful, radiant to look upon, and because of this easily gains the love of her parents and even strangers, a blessing Linsey has never had. When she’s with her sister, her sister’s presence is always regrettable. In “The Opposite of Me”, the main protagonist Linsey is a diligent student, a hard worker, and her careers success is the only thing she has. Her life has suffered at the expense of her work, but after all is said and done, she can’t shake off the fact that in this society, winning or losing doesn’t really depend on playing by the rules. When she’s betrayed at work, her career also sinks into an unprecedented crisis. 
　”The Opposite of Me” is also about the process of working through hardships, a comforting love story. Returning to her roots, Linsey still must face Alex’s dazzling radiance. Even the man who has liked her for 20 years, after meeting Alex by chance, changes his affections. Linsey complains about the unfairness of fate, and heaps this moodiness onto Alex’s shoulders. 
　　However, when bad luck comes to visit Alex, Linsey finally finds out that her feelings towards her sister are far from as simple as she thought. In order to fulfill her sister’s wish, Linsey climbs into the attic that has been closed for years, and unexpectedly discovers an old envelope that has been gathering dust for years; inside the envelope is a secret that has been hidden for almost 30 years. It changes the long-set course of her life, and raises a new wind in the lives of two sisters. 
